.TH (GTK)TIEMU 1 "October 31, 2000"
.SH NAME
gtktiemu - a TI emulator for TI89/92/92+ calculators
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBgtktiemu\fP [-h] [-v] [-rom_file=] [-ram_file=] [-calc=] [-link=] [-adr_port=] [-dev_port=] [-timeout=] [-delay=]  [-gray_planes=] [-tick_rate] [-cycle_rate] [-dark_col] [-light_col] [-sync_one=] [-background=] [filename] [--help] [--version] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBGtkTiEmu\fP program allows you to emulate a Texas Instruments calculators such as a TI89, TI92 or TI92+ calculator.
The emulator has also a virtual link capability which allows to connect it to another program (such as a linking program for instance).
.SH OPTIONS
The command line options override the default options (startup options) and the config file options even.
The \fBGtkTiEmu\fP accepts the following options:
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fP
Display a list of all command line options.
.TP
\fB-v, --version\fP
Output the version info.
.TP
\fB-rom_file=\fP
Load the specified ROM file. Must be a valid TI89/92/92+ ROM image.
.TP
\fB-ram_file=\fP
Load the specified RAM file. Must be a valid TI89/92/92+ RAM image.
.TP
\fB-calc=\fP
Select a calculator type: ti92+, ti92, ti89.
.TP
\fB-link=\fP
Select a link cable type: Grey TIGraphLink (tgl), home-made serial or Black TIGraphLink (ser), home-made parallel link (par), fastAVRlink (avr), generic virtual link (vtl), TIEmulator virtual link (tie), VTi virtual link (vti), TI/PC USB link (tpu) or USB TIGraphLink (ugl).
.TP
\fB-adr_port=\fP
This value can represent either a direct address, either a link number/mode, according to the link type.
Give the direct address of the parallel port (0x3BC, 0x378 or 0x278) or serial
port (0x3F8, 0x2F8, 0x3E8 or 0x2E8), depending of the link cable type.
Give the link number of the virtual link (1 -> #0, 2 -> #1).
Give the link mode of the TI/PC USB link (1 -> 'raw' mode, 2 -> 'cooked' mode).
.TP
\fB-dev_port=\fP
Give the serial port device (/dev/ttyS[0..3]) for the Grey TIGraphLink or the fastAVRlink.
.TP
\fB-timeout=\fP
in tenth of seconds (0.1 s). This is the time while the program wait a response of the 
calculator. Once this delay elapsed, the program send a time out error. The 
default value is 1 seconds.
.TP
\fB-delay=\fP
in microseconds. This is the time which separate the transmission of 2 bytes.
The default value is 5 microseconds. Decrease this value increase the 
transfer speed but decrease the reliability of the transmission.
.TP
\fB-gray_planes=\fP
This value represent the number of grey scales on the TI planar screen. Legal values are: 0 (Black & White), 2 (2 extra colors -> 4 colors), 5 (5 extra colors -> 7 colors) or 11 (blurry mode).
.TP
\fB-tick_rate=\fP
set number the rate of the timer. The 'tickrate' is a measure of how often the internal timer of the TI89/92/92+ should be increased by one. Since the screen is updated every 16th time the timer ticks, this value is important for emulator performance. For fast Pentium (or equivalent processors), you should probably leave it at 40000. For slower Pentium, you should probably increase this to leave more room for the m68k emulation, or, if a game is running too slox you could try to decrease this (which will speed the game up if it is synchronized with the timer and is not too CPU-intensive).
Defaults to 40000 and can be any integer value. The higher, the slower.
.TP
\fB-cycle_rate=\fP
set the rate of instructions. The 'cyclerate' is a measure of how long to delay each m68k instruction beforeproceeding to the next. On slower Pentium (or equivalent processors), always set this to 0 as delay is not necessary. On faster Pentium , the default works pertty fine (can be adjusted from program to program if you want as exact speed as possible).
Defaults to 140 and can be any integer value.
.TP
\fB-dark_col=\fP
set the dark (dark blue) color to the given RGB value (in hex). Format: 0xrrggbb. Default value is 0x000034.
.TP
\fB-light_col=\fP
set the dark (dark blue) color to the given RGB value (in hex). Format: 0xrrggbb. Default value is 0x989898.
.TP
\fB-sync_one=\fP
0 or 1. Must be an integer boolean value. If you set this to \fB0\fP, scren updating will be synchronized with the timer which means it will always be updated regularly. This may cause grayscale pictures to flicker when you press keys and other things happen in the code. If you set this to \fB1\fP, scren updating will be synchronized with IRQ1. This means that if IRQ1 does not run, the screen is not updated. This options usually makes grayscales rock-stable, but will not work at all in programs thqt turn off IRQ1 (like 'tunnel' or 'torus'). This options is 0 per default but switching it to 1 is usually a good idea when grayscale is involved.
.TP
\fB-background=\fP
0 or 1. If set to 0, GtkTiEmu will display only the calculator LCD. You will not see the keyboard but popup menu is still accessible.
.TP
\fBfilename\fP
a ROM file to load at startup, such as 'ti92.rom'.
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
gtktilink(1) for the latest information on the link cable parameters.
.SH CONFIG FILE FORMAT
This section describes the format of the .gtktiemu config file which is in the home directory of the user (Linux). A line preceded by the '#' symbol is a comment. 
Each line has the following format: option=something.
The config file must have the 'RC_END' string at end.
Every line can be put in any order.
Take in mind that any comment added in the config file will be overwritten.
Below is described each option and the possible values:

\fBcalctype=\fP
Defines the calculator type. Choose one of the following value: ti89, ti92, ti92+.

\fBlinktype=\fP
Define the link cable type. Choose one of the following value: TIGraphLink, parallel, serial, AVRlink, fastAVRlink, virtual, TiEmulator, VTi, UsbGraphLink, TiPcUsbLink.

\fBadr_port=\fP
places the I/O address of the I/O port to use. It can be 0x3F8 for a serial port or 0x378 for a parallel port for instance.

\fBserial_device=\fP
places the character device name of the serial port to use with a Grey TIGL.

\fBtimeout=\fP
with the timeout value to use in tenth of seconds. Default value: 20.

\fBdelay=\fP
with the delay value to use in micro-seconds for home-made cables. Default value: 10

\fBuse_tidev=\fP
Define whether gtktilink will use or not the 'tidev kernel module' for handling your link cable. The link cable is managed thru the libTicable but with the kernel module and not with low-level I/O routines.
Options: 'yes' or 'no'.

\fBbackground=\fP
Define whether GtkTiEmu display the background (keyboard) or only the LCD screen. Put 0 if you do not want the keyboard.

\fBrom_file=\fP
Define the ROM image to load at startup.

\fBram_file=\fP
Define the RAM image to load at startup.

\fBgray_planes=\fP
Define the number of gray scales. Valid values are 0, 2, 5 or 11.

\fBtick_rate=\fP
Define the tick rate.

\fBcycle_rate=\fP
Define the cycle rate.

\fBdark_color=\fP
Set the dark color to the given RGB value. Format is 0xrrggbb.

\fBlight_color=\fP
Set the light color to the given RGB value. Format is 0xrrggbb.

\fBsync_one=\fP
Enable or disable synchronization on IRQ1 (m68k IRQs). Valid value is: 0 or 1.

\fBcode_lines=\fP
Defines the number of lines which are displayed in the code box of th debugger window.

\fBstack_lines=\fP
Defines the number of lines which are displayed in the stack box of th debugger window.

\fBmem_lines=\fP
Defines the number of lines which are displayed in the memory box of th debugger window.

\fBimg_format=\fP
Defines the image format of the screenshots. Several formats are available: PCX, XPM, JPG or BMP (SDL only).

\fBimg_type=\fP
You can do screenshots in Black&White or in colors.

\fBimg_size=\fP
The size of the image that is to say you can shots only the LCD or the entire window (skin+LCD).

\fBscreen_file=\fP
Defines the base filename where the screenshot will be stored.

\fBscreen_counter=\fP
This allows you to save the current screenshot counter. In fact, the resulting filename is computed as 'screenfile[screen_counter].[img_format]. Example: 'screenshot001.xpm'.

\fBconsole=\fP
Available under Windows platform only. You can hide or show the console at startup or even display it only during boot.

Think to terminate your config script with the 'RC_END' word !!!

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2000-2001, Romain Lievin and Thomas Corvazier. 
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

This program and its source code is distributed under the terms of the 
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

.SH SUGGESTIONS AND BUG REPORTS
The  canonical place to find GtkTiEmu and some miscellenaous informations is at 
http://lpg.ticalc.org/prj_gtktiemu (redirected on http://gtktiemu.sourceforge.net).
You can also look at http://lpg.ticalc.org and http://www.ticalc.org for others TI related programs for Linux.
.SH AUTHOR
Romain Lievin.
Thomas Corvazier
.SH SPECIAL THANKS
- Jonas Minnberg (Sasq) for Tiger
- UAE, the Universal Amiga Emulator (http:// ??)
.TP
- Benjamin Gordon <ben@bxg.org> for creating rpm packages: he is the official maintainer of this package.
.TP
- Julien Blache <jb@jblache.org> for creating deb packages: he is the official maintainer of this package.
.SH THANKS



